Preview docs for CloudPrem (#28464)
DataDog/documentation: content/en/cloudprem/installation.md

     default_index_root_uri: s3://<bucket name>/indexes

   # Ingress configuration
   # The chart supports two ingress configurations:
   # 1. A public ingress for external access via the internet that will be used exclusively by Datadog's controle plane and query service.
   # 2. An internal ingress for access within the VPC
   #
   # Both ingresses will provision Application Load Balancers (ALBs) in AWS.
   # The public ingress ALB will be created in public subnets.
   # The internal ingress ALB will be created in private subnets.
   #
   # Additional annotations can be added to customize the ALB behavior.
   ingress:
     # The public ingress is configured to only accept TLS traffic and requires mutual TLS (mTLS) authentication.
     # Datadog's control plane and query service authenticate themselves using client certificates,
     # ensuring that only authorized Datadog services can access CloudPrem nodes through the public ingress.
     public:
       enabled: true
       name: cloudprem-public
       host: cloudprem.acme.corp
       extraAnnotations:
         alb.ingress.kubernetes.io/load-balancer-name: cloudprem-public

>      # The internal ingress is used by Datadog agents and other collectors running outside

Reviewer: ```suggestion
     # The internal ingress is used by Datadog Agents and other collectors running outside
```

     # the Kubernetes cluster to send their logs to CloudPrem.
     internal:
       enabled: true
       name: cloudprem-internal
       host: cloudprem.acme.internal
       extraAnnotations:
         alb.ingress.kubernetes.io/load-balancer-name: cloudprem-internal

   # Metastore configuration
   # The metastore is responsible for storing and managing index metadata.

>    # It requires a PostgreSQL database connection string to be provided via a Kubernetes secret.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   # It requires a PostgreSQL database connection string to be provided by a Kubernetes secret.
```

   # The secret should contain a key named `QW_METASTORE_URI` with a value in the format:
   # postgresql://<username>:<password>@<host>:<port>/<database>
   #
   # The metastore connection string is mounted into the pods using extraEnvFrom to reference the secret.
   metastore:
     extraEnvFrom:
       - secretRef:
           name: cloudprem-metastore-uri

   # Indexer configuration

>    # The indexer is responsible for processing and indexing incoming data it receives data from various sources (e.g., Datadog agents, log collectors)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   # The indexer is responsible for processing and indexing incoming data it receives data from various sources (for example, Datadog Agents, log collectors)
```

   # and transforms it into searchable files called "splits" stored in S3.
   #
   # The indexer is horizontally scalable - you can increase `replicaCount` to handle higher indexing throughput.
   # Resource requests and limits should be tuned based on your indexing workload.
   #
   # The default values are suitable for moderate indexing loads of up to 20MB/s per indexer pod.
   indexer:
     replicaCount: 2

     resources:
       requests:
         cpu: "4"
         memory: "8Gi"
       limits:
         cpu: "4"
         memory: "8Gi"

   # Searcher configuration
   # The searcher is responsible for executing search queries against the indexed data stored in S3.
   # It handles search requests from Datadog's query service and returns matching results.
   #
   # The searcher is horizontally scalable - you can increase `replicaCount` to handle more concurrent searches.
   # Resource requirements for searchers are highly workload-dependent and should be determined empirically.
   # Key factors that impact searcher performance include:

>    # - Query complexity (e.g., number of terms, use of wildcards or regex)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   # - Query complexity (for example, number of terms, use of wildcards or regex)
```

   # - Query concurrency (number of simultaneous searches)
   # - Amount of data scanned per query
   # - Data access patterns (cache hit rates)
   #
   # Memory is particularly important for searchers as they cache frequently accessed index data in memory.
   searcher:
     replicaCount: 2

     resources:
       requests:
         cpu: "4"
         memory: "16Gi"
       limits:
         cpu: "4"
         memory: "16Gi"
   ```

   To check if the deployment went well:
   - Look at the logs from the metastore or indexer pod.

>    - Look at the deployment resources status like the ingress ones.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   - Look at the status of deployment resources, such as the ingress status.
```

   If you spot some errors, check out our troubleshooting section.

## Send Kubernetes logs to CloudPrem with the Datadog Agent

> Follow the [Getting started with Datadog Operator guide][5] and use the following configuration datadog-agent.yaml:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Follow the [Getting started with Datadog Operator guide][5] and use the following configuration in `datadog-agent.yaml`:
```

```yaml
apiVersion: datadoghq.com/v2alpha1
kind: DatadogAgent
metadata:
  name: datadog
spec:
  global:

>     clusterName: <cluster name>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    clusterName: <CLUSTER_NAME>
```

    site: datadoghq.com
    credentials:
      apiSecret:

>         secretName: datadog-secret

Reviewer: Should these two entries be placeholders?

Author: Confirmed that this is a reference the user would have created by following the Getting Started with Datadog Operator guide. The previous wording didn’t make that clear, so I’ve updated the instructions to clarify—thanks for flagging!

        keyName: api-key
    env:
      - name: DD_LOGS_CONFIG_LOGS_DD_URL

>         value: http://<release name>-indexer.<namespace>.svc.cluster.local:7280

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        value: http://<RELEASE_NAME>-indexer.<NAMESPACE>.svc.cluster.local:7280
```

  features:
    logCollection:
      enabled: true
      containerCollectAll: true
      
    otlp:
      receiver:
        protocols:
          grpc:
            enabled: true
            endpoint: 0.0.0.0:4417

    prometheusScrape:
      enabled: true
      enableServiceEndpoints: true

```

> - Within the cluster, use the indexer service for the logs endpoint url. `DD_LOGS_CONFIG_LOGS_DD_URL:http://<release name>-indexer.<namespace>.svc.cluster.local:7280`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Within the cluster, use the indexer service for the logs endpoint URL: `DD_LOGS_CONFIG_LOGS_DD_URL:http://<RELEASE_NAME>-indexer.<NAMESPACE>.svc.cluster.local:7280`.
```

- Outside the cluster, use the host of the internal ingress.
- To send cluster metrics to Datadog, enable `prometheusScrape`.
- To send cluster logs to Datadog, enable `OTLP/gRPC`.

## Configure your Datadog account

You need to reach out to [Datadog support][7] and give the public DNS of CloudPrem so that you can search into your CloudPrem cluster from Datadog UI.

### Searching your CloudPrem logs in the Logs Explorer

After your Datadog account is configured, you are ready to search into the `cloudprem` index by typing it in the search bar or selecting it in facets.
**Note**: You cannot query the CloudPrem index and other indexes together. 

> <!-- {{< img src="path/to/your/image-name-here.png" alt="TBD Log Explorer filtered by index:cloudprem" style="width:100%;" >}} -->

Reviewer: Should this be removed?

## Uninstall

To uninstall CloudPrem:

```bash

> helm uninstall <deployment name>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
helm uninstall <DEPLOYMENT_NAME>
```
